# LittleTracker
An application to monitor productivity.
Self analysis in one of the best ways to measure productivity on a day-to-day or weekly basis. This can be done on personal as well as professional levels but there is there is no proper metric to measure the productivity of an individual. Due to which they should be provided with self monitoring applications in their workplace. Software developers spend most of their day using computer either for work, leisure, or other activities. So, analyzing the activities performed in most of their day will provide a better idea on how to work on increasing productivity. If provided with resources to monitor day to day productivity for engineers/developers with productivity monitoring/tracking applications and interactive results daily a better understanding of putting more efforts to manage time can be worked out. A lot of research has been happening on how self-analyzing can be performed and what an individual expects from such applications. It is not sufficient to consider only the amount of code written by developers or time spent on specific software but also how they manage to communicate with teammates, learn skills for various other resources or other ways to contribute to the work. On an everyday basis software developers not only writes code but also contribute to projects, communicate with people, search for other research happening around the world to get a better understanding of interpersonal improvement, and reading artifacts. 

In this project, we will focus on building a tool for developers to track their everyday time spent on their computers. This tool will help track the activities performed, numbers of applications used, and time spent on each of the applications. It will also help me understand how much keyboard and mouse activity is performed on the application used. All these data collected using this application will clarify the daily habit of a software engineer. This information can also be utilized by managers to understand how software engineers manage to keep themselves productive even if they spend less time on writing lines and lines of code. Self-monitoring can be one of the biggest benefits from this application where an individual will be able to understand the time wasted on unproductive activities and ways to act more productive by taking appropriate measures. To understand all these aspects, it is important to monitor the time spent on useful applications versus the time spent on entertainment. Also, the number of key and mouse activity versus the time spent on specific application will give an idea of how the typing speed and mouse activity is performed. 

# Goals
•	Measure productivity based on the keyboard and mouse activity.
•	Applications running on the computer and implementing a timer to understand the application usage.
•	Measuring the activity performed based on where the user has spent time and total time spent on different applications. 
•	An additional feature to see Gmail notifications, Inbox messages with multiple Unread mails.
•	Monitoring websites visited to understand the difference between work and leisure.
•	Drafting a JSON report to keep a track of the applications used with time, day, keyboard/activity, and Visualize the data.
•	Graphs to understand the overall productivity of the day. Application with time shown on the graphs. 

# Keyboard/Mouse Activity
*Design*
For measuring the mouse activity, a mouse logging tool will be developed using the Python input library. As Python is open-source software with various libraries to interact with 'Windows' activities it will be easy to develop such software. Also, the input library will be used as it supports mouse, keyboard monitoring with mouse toggling, clicks, and scroll functions to be measured separately. The goal is to design software that can show real-time movements of mouse activities on different applications. These applications will individually monitor the mouse activity such as movement in (x,y) coordinates, scroll up/down, and clicks to get an idea of what kind of work is performed on application. A mouse movement with scrolling and clicks shows that whether the user is idle sitting idle while running applications or is active while the applications.   

It was mentioned in the project that we were are not supposed to design a Keylogger, I have still designed a keylogger to monitor the keyboard activity on individual applications. This software will not just be used to measure the number of keystrokes but will be utilized to understand the key activity on application versus the time that the application has been used. This will clearly show the typing speed on each application which will be useful in understanding productivity. 
To design a key logger I have referred to various YouTube videos and books which helped me understand the development process and usability of Key loggers.I then made my key logger with custom functions to work with activity tracking software running in real-time to show the total keys uses and the type of keys used on individual applications

# License
MIT License
A short and simple permissive license with conditions only requiring preservation of copyright and license notices. Licensed works, modifications, and larger works may be distributed under different terms and without source code.
